##Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
The main purpose of this analysis script is to construct the full dataset from both the training and the test sets, and to agregate data by getting the mean (average) of all observations for each activity and each subject. To do this, we proceed as following in the analysis:
* Reading both the training and the test data sets and merging both sets using *rbind* command.
* In order to achieve the second requirement in the assignment project of the course: "Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.", we have first to get the columns names from the *features.txt* file which contains the features mapped accordingly to data sets. Then, we are going to use the regular expression to get the indexes of columns which have the mean and the standard deviation for each measurement using the grep R command: **grep("mean|std", features[,2], ignore.case=TRUE)**. Based on the *indexes* generated by *grep* command, we are going to select those columns only from our data set **mean_std_total <- total[,indexes]**
* To apply descriptive names for the columns in our dataset, we are going to extract these names from features data set using this command **columns_names <- features[indexes,2]**;then, we are going to apply these values as columns names for our dataset using **colnames(mean_std_total) <- as.vector(columns_names)**
* The acitivty dataset -for both the training and the test sets- has been loaded and added to our dataset using *cbind* command.
* The activities in the dataset have been named with descriptive values based on the *activity_labels.txt* file which is included in the zip file of data set. This R line is used to apply the new label for activities: **mean_std_total$activity[mean_std_total$activity==1] <- 'WALKING'**; this has been repeated 6 times for each activity.
* The subject dataset for both the training and the test sets has been loaded and added to our dataset using *cbind* command.
* To calculate the average of each variable for each activity and each subject, the *aggregate* function has been used as following **avg_activity_subject <- aggregate(. ~ subject + activity, mean_std_total, mean)**. Since we have 30 subjects and 6 different activities, the total number of rows for the new aggregated dataset is 30*6=80 rows.
* The *write.table* command has been used to save the resulted tiday dataset. In order to read the data back to R, use this command **data <- read.table("tidy.txt", header = TRUE)**

